In your first paragraph, plan to do a bit more with your definition. Bring in
the actual definition in quotes from Google Dictionary. Define cataclysm if
you don't know what it means. And then consider bringing in a question.
Does The Story of Ten Days qualify as an apocalypse? And then answer that
question with a bit of context or explanation of what he went through in the
concentration camp, linking that to an apocalypse of sorts. For your thesis,
note that the Story of Ten Days is particularly apocalyptic for the reasons
you have posited here. It's the end of a world, the start of another. Say
more about that.

As you move into your reading, please consider bringing us to the beginning of
the chapter, pages 151. Why is Primo lucky? How is he comfortable in this
moment? Does he seem to feel that he has escaped something? What is his tone
on this page? Your reading starts on 158 but you might note how Primo feels
about the others in the camp, how he receives the news of his impending
liberation. You might 'read' the note at the top of 156. What does he mean
when he says 'For us began the ten days outside both world and time." What
does that mean to be outside the world and time?

I ask you this because I think it is important that you ground your reader in
the text earlier on. You might also try to show that not only is the world
destroyed for Primo but his spirit is, as well.

And then you can jump to your quote about the decomposition of the lager, noting
that this decomposition is essential. Explain how "the work of the bombs was
completed by the work of man," I think that this section really needs to explain
the actual decomposition of the lager, and note how Primo sees the men as
worm like. Note their own degradation.

You need more discussion when writing about how the group became a community. I
think you could choose a series of moments to show how this happened. Lead up
to that quote on 161, and when you reach it, make something out of that line
about creation. Certainly this would help you describe the apocalyptic nature
of the piece. 

I like what you are doing with the next paragraph but again, your quotes are a
bit long and you need to do more with them. When you get into a tutoring
session, you can ask the tutor for help with analysis. How does Primo have a
degree of expertise here? Explain the system he is working to implement. Make
sure that your sentences are not repeating themselves, that each adds something
new to the discussion. 

And then you probably want to talk about the liberation of the camp and how
Primo seems barely to pause for that moment. What is he doing? What does he
regret in that moment? What does that tell you of his progress back to humanity?

As for the ending, say more about how the return to life is apocalyptic, how the
end is apocalyptic, even though sad. 

With the big quotes, indent and single space, but also plan to make use of them
by offering more analysis that helps you develop your thesis of what is
apocalyptic in this chapter. It may be that what is apocalyptic is very simple,
the simple human experiences that everyone has. What are these? How are they
huge for Primo?
